So after learning how we can structure our application over a multiple files and folders and you can
be as granular as you want,
I want to bring another problem, potential problem to your attention.
If you use multiple modules like we do here, you have to make sure that you're not using the same
name twice,
for example here doubleCounters in the getters in my counter.js file and then in my shared
getters, if I were to rename this to doubleCounter, if I save this you see that I get an error that
key doubleCounter is duplicate.
So I shall not do that,
I must not do this actually because all the things here are in the end merged into one central store
hence they share the same namespace
so you absolutely need to make sure that all your getters, your actions, your mutations have a unique
name and not only in the file they sit in but in all the files which in the end get merged together in
the store.
Now for small to medium sized applications, that is something you might be able to handle,
you can just kind of make sure that you're not repeating your names,
also maybe you choose to give your getters, actions and on some prefix like shared values, something like
that,
whatever works for you
but for large applications, here's another pattern you may consider using.
You can create a new file in the store file, folder and I will name it
types.js
and here, I will set up some constants which will get unique names which are all stored in this file
which I will then assign as names for my methods and properties and so on in all the other files thereafter.
How should this work?
Well let's create the doubleCounter here,
it's all capital case because that kind of is the convention for global constants, doubleCounter
shall be a string which I'll now name counter/DOUBLE_COUNTER,
so generally the same name as the constant has
but with this counter/ prefix to indicate to which part it belongs.
I can do the same with the click counter here to also exchange this.
And now I can go to my counter.js file and here I want to import from this types file and I want
to import all the types in one object,
so from the types.js
file and then due to ES6, we can use the send text where we set up a dynamic property name.
So we're using square brackets, we can tell javascript assign this name on runtime,
so it then fetches the name from types and then here, doubleCounter,
so this will in the end be a string name here, we just use the square brackets to do that dynamically
so that we can use a constant which stores the name
and here I do the same for the click counter
now. Now have these names replaced,
of course I also need to go to my results where I use that
and here if I map it like this, this won't work anymore because doubleCounter and stringCounter don't
exist.
So instead here now I also have to import my types
so from the store types file and then in mapGetters, here I also now want to pass an object instead of
an array so that I can still use my names here, so that I can say doubleCounter shall be types double
counter and stringCounter should be types
string click counter I name it there. So with that, I can still use the names I use in my template but I
assign now the names which are actually used in my getters,
so this allows me to use different names in template and in my getter.
Now that is one thing, I will now also copy that to my other result here
and replace this, here of course
I don't need the stringCounter and that should be just renamed to counter.
And with that if we reload,
it still works
as before which is great but now we're using the types file to manage all our global names for, well
right now only the getters but you would do the same for all the actions and mutations because as you store
everything in this file and you choose a prefix here, you ensure that a it's unique because since everything
is stored in one file, you can't use the same name twice
and you also ensure that the strings are unique because the strings are what is the or what are the method
names in the end because we assign them dynamically here,
we ensure that these strings are unique because we prefix them with well the module name kind of.
And this is how you could also set it up for all the actions, all the getters, all the mutations and
that is a lot of work,
I do agree
but it might be worth it since in large applications, this really ensures that you're not using the same
name twice,
if you want to use a different approach or if your application just is not that large, that this extra
effort is worth it,
you of course don't have to do it.
So I'll quickly finish this and I'll be back once I exchanged everything with global types, like this.
So I finished it,
you can find it attached to the last lecture of this module of course, were quite a lot of changes.
I changed all the files, actions, getters and mutations.js here to now export a default object instead
of a named constant
and therefore I also change the imports in the store to no longer have star as actions but only actions,
I did these changes or I implemented them because I need to export an object here so that I can use
this dynamic setting of the name here for the property which I couldn't use in a constant.
Therefore this change was taken
and besides that, I simply replaced all the names here with this,
well with the names stored in these types file where I then created these constants for all the operations
we do have. Now again, honestly that is quite a lot of work,
it might be worth it,
I at least wanted to show it to you,
it's up to you if you choose this path or if you just want to be careful when assigning your names.
And with that, I'd say we really went through a lot in this module and had a detailed look at
vuex.